# Simple Sync Example App

This example is similar to the [Simple Sine example](../simple_sine/README.md)
but uses synchronous interfaces to show how to perform audio playback without
relying on a particular message loop interface. It plays the same audio as
the simple sine example and has the same setup scheme, but controls playback
in a slightly different way.

### USAGE
```
  sync_sine [--wake=nn] [--sleep=nn] [--float] [--v|--verbose]
```
The `--wake` flag specifies this application's _low water mark_, expressed in
milliseconds. When the amount of audio queued at the AudioRendererSync falls below
this amount, the application will be awakened to provide more audio. If not
provided, a default value of 30 milliseconds is used.

The `--sleep` flag specifies this application's _high water mark_, expressed in
milliseconds. When the application starts up, or when it is awakened because the
AudioRendererSync needs more data, it will continue sending packets until there is at
least this much audio data queued at the AudioRendererSync. If not provided, a
default value of 50 milliseconds is used. This value cannot be less than the
`--wake` value (whether specified or default, for both values). If this would be
the case, then this value is set to the `--wake` value.

The `--float` flag specifies that the audio data generated by the app and passed
to the system will be in 32-bit floating-point format, where 1.0 and -1.0
represent the maximum and minimum full-scale, respectively.

The `--verbose` flag enables additional printf logging for debugging purposes.

### Warm-up

The example first computes a presentation time for the first packet based on an
estimate of the warm-up time of the system and populates a few frames of data.

### Playback

Once a few packets are prepared, the example initiates playback (by configuring
the timeline transform) and begins its primary playback loop. The playback
loop's job is to maintain a minimum buffer of pending packets in flight until
playback is complete. This loop is composed of 3 steps:

1.) Look at the current time and compute how many packets need to be supplied in
order to restore the desired buffer

2.) Generate and supply this many packets

3.) Sleep until it is time to generate more packets
