# Glossary


## Overview

The purpose of this document is to provide short definitions for a collection
of technical terms used in the Fuchsia source tree.

#### Adding new definitions

- A definition should be limited to two or three sentences and deliver a
high-level description of a term.
- When another non-trivial technical term needs to be employed as part of the
description, consider adding a definition for that term and linking to it from
the original definition.
- A definition should be complemented by a list of links to more detailed
documentation and related topics.


## Terms

#### Agent
#### Armadillo
#### Component
#### DDK
#### Device shell
#### Environment
#### Escher
#### FIDL
#### Flutter

#### GN

GN is a meta-build system which generates build files so that Fuchsia can be
built with [Ninja](#ninja).
GN is fast and comes with solid tools to manage and explore dependencies.
GN files, named `BUILD.gn`, are located all over the repository.
- [Language and operation](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/tools/gn/docs/language.md)
- [Reference](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/tools/gn/+/HEAD/docs/reference.md)

#### Init
#### Jiri
#### Launchpad
#### LK
#### Magenta
#### Maxwell
#### Module
#### Mozart
#### Musl
#### mxio
#### Namespace
#### Netstack

#### Ninja

Ninja is the build system executing Fuchsia builds.
It is a small build system with a strong emphasis on speed.
Unlike other systems, Ninja files are not supposed to be manually written but
should be generated by more featureful systems, such as [GN](#gn) in Fuchsia.
- [Manual](https://ninja-build.org/manual.html)
- [Ninja rules in GN](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/tools/gn/+/HEAD/docs/reference.md#ninja_rules)

#### Service
#### Story
#### Story shell
#### User shell
#### VMO
