tests/README.md, before:

# Testing

Modular has two types of tests, unit tests and integration tests.

## Unit tests

Unit tests are low-level tests written against the smallest testable parts of
the code. Tests for `some_class.{h,cc}` are placed side-by-side the code being
tested, in a `some_class_unittest.cc` file.

Unit tests are regular [Google Test] tests, although most of them use our own
[TestLoopFixture] base class to conveniently run delayed tasks with a
timeout, ensuring that a failing test does not hang forever.

All Modular unit tests in the peridot tree are built into a single
`modular_unittests` binary, which can be executed on fuchsia by running
`/system/test/modular_unittests`.

## Integration tests

Integration tests are written against client-facing FIDL services exposed by
Modular and run through the [Test Runner] framework in a fuchsia instance
running on either the build host using QEMU or on a target device.

There are two ways to invoke the test suite, remotely from the build host or
directly on the fuchsia instance.

### Starting tests remotely from the build host

The test runner discovers the running fuchsia instance automatically, but will
stop with an error if there is more than one. To fix the problem, specify the
device name with the `--server` parameter.

In order to run tests from your workstation, a `test_runner` must be running
under fuchsia. In order to start `test_runner`, you can either:

* Use a gn module to automatically start `test_runner` at fuchsia boot
  time using [boot_test.config](boot_test.config). At build time on your
  workstation, do:

```
fx set x64 --packages peridot/packages/products/test_modular
```

* Alternatively, invoke `test_runner` manually after starting fuchsia. In a
  shell on your fuchsia device, do:

```
run test_runner
```

Each subdirectory of `peridot/tests` contains one integration test. They
are all run together by the test runner as specified by the
[modular_tests.json](modular_tests.json) configuration file:

```
fx exec garnet/bin/test_runner/run_test \
  --test_file=peridot/tests/modular_tests.json
```

### Starting the test suite directly under fuchsia

`run_modular_tests.sh` is a command that runs all of the Modular tests. It is
based on the [Test Runner] framework, but runs the tests without requiring
`test_runner` to be running under fuchsia.

Run it from the fuchsia shell:

```
$ /system/test/run_modular_tests.sh
```


[Test Runner]: https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/test_runner/ "Test Runner"
[Google Test]: https://github.com/google/googletest "Google Test"
[TestLoopFixture]: ../lib/gtest/test_loop_fixture.h

Commit message:

[modular] Correct path to run_modular_tests in README.
Also add instructions on running just a single test.

Test: n/a

Change-Id: I77f2f059dcd8775f1fb9b3057a6efe1453160fdb

tests/README.md, after:

# Testing

Modular has two types of tests, unit tests and integration tests.

## Unit tests

Unit tests are low-level tests written against the smallest testable parts of
the code. Tests for `some_class.{h,cc}` are placed side-by-side the code being
tested, in a `some_class_unittest.cc` file.

Unit tests are regular [Google Test] tests, although most of them use our own
[TestLoopFixture] base class to conveniently run delayed tasks with a
timeout, ensuring that a failing test does not hang forever.

All Modular unit tests in the peridot tree are built into a single
`modular_unittests` binary, which can be executed on fuchsia by running
`/system/test/modular_unittests`.

## Integration tests

Integration tests are written against client-facing FIDL services exposed by
Modular and run through the [Test Runner] framework in a fuchsia instance
running on either the build host using QEMU or on a target device.

There are two ways to invoke the test suite, remotely from the build host or
directly on the fuchsia instance.

### Starting tests remotely from the build host

The test runner discovers the running fuchsia instance automatically, but will
stop with an error if there is more than one. To fix the problem, specify the
device name with the `--server` parameter.

In order to run tests from your workstation, a `test_runner` must be running
under fuchsia. In order to start `test_runner`, you can either:

* Use a gn module to automatically start `test_runner` at fuchsia boot
  time using [boot_test.config](boot_test.config). At build time on your
  workstation, do:

```
fx set x64 --packages peridot/packages/products/test_modular
```

* Alternatively, invoke `test_runner` manually after starting fuchsia. In a
  shell on your fuchsia device, do:

```
run test_runner
```

Each subdirectory of `peridot/tests` contains one integration test. They
are all run together by the test runner as specified by the
[modular_tests.json](modular_tests.json) configuration file:

```
fx exec garnet/bin/test_runner/run_test \
  --test_file=peridot/tests/modular_tests.json
```

### Starting the test suite directly under fuchsia

`run_modular_tests.sh` is a command that runs all of the Modular tests. It is
based on the [Test Runner] framework, but runs the tests without requiring
`test_runner` to be running under fuchsia.

Run it from the fuchsia shell:

```
$ /pkgfs/packages/modular_tests/0/test/run_modular_tests.sh
```

You can also run specific tests by using their name. For example this
will run only the *link_update* test (as described in
[modular_tests.json](modular_tests.json)).

```
$ /pkgfs/packages/modular_tests/0/test/run_modular_tests.sh link_update
```


[Test Runner]: https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/test_runner/ "Test Runner"
[Google Test]: https://github.com/google/googletest "Google Test"
[TestLoopFixture]: ../lib/gtest/test_loop_fixture.h
