docs/ledger/testing.md, before:

# Testing

Ledger has three types of tests.

## Unit tests

**unit tests** are low-level tests written against the smallest testable parts of
the code. Tests for `some_class.{h,cc}` are placed side-by-side the code being
tested, in a `some_class_unittest.cc` file.

Unit tests are regular [Google Test] tests, although most of them use our own
[TestLoopFixture] base class to conveniently run delayed tasks with a
timeout, ensuring that a failing test does not hang forever.

All unit tests in the Ledger tree are built into a single `ledger_unittests`
binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by running
`/system/test/ledger_unittests`.

## Integration tests

**integration tests** are written against client-facing FIDL services exposed by
Ledger, although these services still run in the same process as the test code.

Integration tests inherit from [IntegrationTest] and are placed under
[/bin/ledger/tests/integration].

All integration tests in the Ledger tree are built into a single
`ledger_integration_tests` binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by
running `/system/test/ledger_integration_tests`. Some end-to-end tests
(synchronization tests, see below) are also run as integration tests using fake
implementations of cloud services.

## End-to-end tests

**End-to-end tests** are also written against client-facing FIDL services
exposed by Ledger, but in this case the test code runs in a separate process,
and connects to Ledger the same way any other client application would do. This
is the highest-level way of testing that exercises all of the Ledger stack.

End-to-end tests exercising only the local part of the Ledger are in
[/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_local]. [Synchronization end-to-end tests] exercising
multi-device synchronization are in [/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync] and compiled
both as end-to-end tests exercising real cloud services, and as integration
tests using fake services.

All local application tests in the Ledger tree are built into a single
`ledger_e2e_local` binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by running
`/system/test/ledger_e2e_local`. Synchronization tests are built into a single
`ledger_e2e_sync` binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by running
`/system/test/disabled/ledger_e2e_sync`.

[Google Test]: https://github.com/google/googletest
[TestLoopFixture]: /lib/gtest/test_loop_fixture.h
[IntegrationTest]: /bin/ledger/tests/integration/integration_test.h
[/bin/ledger/tests/integration]: /bin/ledger/tests/integration
[Synchronization end-to-end tests]: /bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync/README.md
[/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_local]: /bin/ledger/tests/e2e_local
[/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync]: /bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync

Commit message:

[ledger] Move tests off the deprecated system image
As part of the move, we split benchmarks into their own package
`ledger_benchmarks`, where we bundle all benchmark binaries and tspec
files. As a result, benchmarks are not runnable directly from the shell,
but are available in /pkgfs/packages/ledger_benchmarks/0/bin and tspec
files need to use this absolute path.

Also fix package definition to make sure runbenchmark from garnet is
imported since it is required to run the wrapper script.

LE-495

Tested:
  fx shell "/pkgfs/packages/peridot_benchmarks/0/bin/benchmarks.sh /tmp"
  fx shell "/pkgfs/packages/ledger_tests/0/test/ledger_unittests"
  (and all other tests in that directory, including disabled/ ones)
Change-Id: I02e34b2dd65f9b115c9590812290d71cc06e0a79

docs/ledger/testing.md, after:

# Testing

Ledger has three types of tests.

## Unit tests

**unit tests** are low-level tests written against the smallest testable parts of
the code. Tests for `some_class.{h,cc}` are placed side-by-side the code being
tested, in a `some_class_unittest.cc` file.

Unit tests are regular [Google Test] tests, although most of them use our own
[TestLoopFixture] base class to conveniently run delayed tasks with a
timeout, ensuring that a failing test does not hang forever.

All unit tests in the Ledger tree are built into a single `ledger_unittests`
binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by running
`/pkgfs/packages/ledger_tests/0/test/ledger_unittests`.

## Integration tests

**integration tests** are written against client-facing FIDL services exposed by
Ledger, although these services still run in the same process as the test code.

Integration tests inherit from [IntegrationTest] and are placed under
[/bin/ledger/tests/integration].

All integration tests in the Ledger tree are built into a single
`ledger_integration_tests` binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by
running `/pkgfs/packages/ledger_tests/0/test/ledger_integration_tests`. Some
end-to-end tests (synchronization tests, see below) are also run as integration
tests using fake implementations of cloud services.

## End-to-end tests

**End-to-end tests** are also written against client-facing FIDL services
exposed by Ledger, but in this case the test code runs in a separate process,
and connects to Ledger the same way any other client application would do. This
is the highest-level way of testing that exercises all of the Ledger stack.

End-to-end tests exercising only the local part of the Ledger are in
[/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_local]. [Synchronization end-to-end tests] exercising
multi-device synchronization are in [/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync] and compiled
both as end-to-end tests exercising real cloud services, and as integration
tests using fake services.

All local application tests in the Ledger tree are built into a single
`ledger_e2e_local` binary, that by default can be executed on Fuchsia by running
`/pkgfs/packages/ledger_tests/0/test/ledger_e2e_local`. Synchronization tests
are built into a single `ledger_e2e_sync` binary, that by default can be
executed on Fuchsia by running
`/pkgfs/packages/ledger_tests/0/test/disabled/ledger_e2e_sync`.

[Google Test]: https://github.com/google/googletest
[TestLoopFixture]: /lib/gtest/test_loop_fixture.h
[IntegrationTest]: /bin/ledger/tests/integration/integration_test.h
[/bin/ledger/tests/integration]: /bin/ledger/tests/integration
[Synchronization end-to-end tests]: /bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync/README.md
[/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_local]: /bin/ledger/tests/e2e_local
[/bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync]: /bin/ledger/tests/e2e_sync
