the-book/namespaces.md, before:

# Fuchsia Namespaces

Namespaces are the backbone of file access and service discovery in Fuchsia.

## Definition

A namespace is a composite hierarchy of files, directories, sockets, services,
devices, and other named objects which are provided to a component by its
environment.

Let's unpack that a little bit.

**Objects are named**: The namespace contains _objects_ which can be enumerated
and accessed by name, much like listing a directory or opening a file.

**Composite hierarchy**: The namespace is a _tree_ of objects which has been
assembled by _combining_ together subtrees of objects from other namespaces
into a composite structure where each part has been assigned a path prefix
by convention.

**Namespace per component**: Every component receives its own namespace
tailored to meet its own needs.  It can also publish objects of its own
to be included in other namespaces.

**Constructed by the environment**: The environment which instantiates a
component is responsible for constructing an appropriate namespace for that
component within that scope.

Namespaces can also be created and used independently from components although
this document focuses on typical component-bound usage.

## Namespaces in Action

You have probably already spent some time exploring a Fuchsia namespace;
they are everywhere.  If you type `ls /` at a command-line shell prompt
you will see a list of some of the objects which are accessible from the
shell's namespace.

Unlike other operating systems, Fuchsia does not have a "root filesystem".
As described earlier, namespaces are defined per-component rather than
globally or per-process.

This has some interesting implications:

- There is no global "root" namespace.
- There is no concept of "running in a chroot-ed environment" because every
  component [effectively has its own private "root"](dotdot.md).
- Components receive namespaces which are tailored to their specific needs.
- Object paths may not be meaningful across namespace boundaries.
- A process may have access to several distinct namespaces at once.
- The mechanisms used to control access to files can also be used to control
  access to services and other named objects on a per-component basis.

## Objects

The items within a namespace are called objects.  They come in various flavors,
including:

- Files: objects which contain binary data
- Directories: objects which contain other objects
- Sockets: objects which establish connections when opened, like named pipes
- Services: objects which provide FIDL services when opened
- Devices: objects which provide access to hardware resources

### Accessing Objects

To access an object within a namespace, you must already have another object
in your possession.  A component typically receives channel handles for
objects in the scope of its namespace during
[Namespace Transfer](#namespace-transfer).

You can also create new objects out of thin air by implementing the
appropriate FIDL interfaces.

Given an object's channel, you can open a channel for one of its sub-objects
by sending it a FIDL message which includes an object relative path expression
which identifies the desired sub-object.  This is much like opening files
in a directory.

Notice that you can only access objects which are reachable from the ones
you already have access to.  There is no ambient authority.

We will now define how object names and paths are constructed.

### Object Names

An object name is a locally unique label by which an object can be located
within a container (such as a directory).  Note that the name is a property
of the container's table of sub-objects rather than a property of the object
itself.

For example, `cat` designates a furry object located within some unspecified
recipient of an `Open()` request.

Objects are fundamentally nameless but they may be called many names by others.

Object names are represented as binary octet strings (arbitrary sequences
of bytes) subject to the following constraints:

- Minimum length of 1 byte.
- Maximum length of 255 bytes.
- Does not contain NULs (zero-valued bytes).
- Does not contain `/`.
- Does not equal `.` or `..`.
- Always compared using byte-for-byte equality (implies case-sensitive).

Object names are valid arguments to a container's `Open()` method.
See [FIDL Interfaces](#fidl-interfaces).

It is intended that object names be encoded and interpreted as human-readable
sequences of UTF-8 graphic characters, however this property is not enforced
by the namespace itself.

Consequently clients are responsible for deciding how to present names
which contain invalid, undisplayable, or ambiguous character sequences to
the user.

_TODO(jeffbrown): Document a specific strategy for how to present names._

### Object Relative Path Expressions

An object relative path expression is an object name or a `/`-delimited
sequence of object names designating a sequence of nested objects to be
traversed in order to locate an object within a container (such as a
directory).

For example, `house/box/cat` designates a furry object located within its
containing object called `box` located within its containing object called
`house` located within some unspecified recipient of an `Open()` request.

An object relative path expression always traverses deeper into the namespace.
Notably, the namespace does not directly support upwards traversal out of
containers (e.g. via `..`) but this feature may be partially emulated by
clients (see below).

Object relative path expressions have the following additional constraints:

- Minimum length of 1 byte.
- Maximum length of 4095 bytes.
- Does not begin or end with `/`.
- All segments are valid object names.
- Always compared using byte-for-byte equality (implies case-sensitive).

Object relative path expressions are valid arguments to a container's `Open()`
method.  See [FIDL Interfaces](#fidl-interfaces).

### Client Interpreted Path Expressions

A client interpreted path expression is a generalization of object relative
path expressions which includes optional features which may be emulated
by client code to enhance compatibility with programs which expect a rooted
file-like interface.

Technically these features are beyond the scope of the Fuchsia namespace
protocol itself but they are often used so we describe them here.

- A client may designate one of its namespaces to function as its "root".
  This namespace is denoted `/`.
- A client may construct paths relative to its designated root namespace
  by prepending a single `/`.
- A client may construct paths which traverse upwards from containers using
  `..` path segments by folding segments together (assuming the container's
  path is known) through a process known as client-side "canonicalization".
- These features may be combined together.

For example, `/places/house/box/../sofa/cat` designates a furry object
located at `places/house/sofa/cat` within some client designated "root"
container.

Client interpreted path expressions that contain these optional features
are not valid arguments to a container's `Open()` method; they must be
translated by the client prior to communicating with the namespace.
See [FIDL Interfaces](#fidl-interfaces).

For example, `fdio` implements client-side interpretation of `..` paths
in file manipulation APIs such as `open()`, `stat()`, `unlink()`, etc.

## Namespace Transfer

When a component is instantiated in an environment (e.g. its process is
started), it receives a table which maps one or more namespace path prefixes
to object handles.

The path prefixes in the table encode the intended significance of their
associated objects by convention.  For example, the `pkg` prefix should
be associated with a directory object which contains the component's own
binaries and assets.

More on this in the next section.

## Namespace Conventions

This section describes the conventional layout of namespaces for typical
components running on Fuchsia.

The precise contents and organization of a component's namespace varies
greatly depending on the component's role, type, identity, scope,
relation to other components, and rights. See [sandboxing.md] for information
about how namespaces are used to create sandboxes for components.

_For more information about the namespace your component can expect to
receive from its environment, please consult the documentation related to
the component type you are implementing._

### Typical Objects

There are some typical objects which a component namespace might contain:

- Read-only executables and assets from the component's package.
- Private local persistent storage.
- Private temporary storage.
- Services offered to the component by the system, the component framework,
  or by the client which started it.
- Device nodes (for drivers and privileged components).

### Typical Directory Structure

- `pkg/`: the contents of the current program's package
  - `bin/`: executable binaries within the package
  - `lib/`: shared libraries within the package
  - `data/`: data, such as assets, within the package
- `data/`: local persistent storage (read-write, private to the package)
- `tmp/`: temporary storage (read-write, private to the package)
- `svc/`: services offered to the component
  - `fuchsia.process.Launcher`: launch processes
  - `fuchsia.logger.Log`: log messages
  - `vendor.topic.Interface`: service defined by a _vendor_
- `dev/`: device tree (relevant portions visible to privileged components as needed)
  - `class/`, ...
- `hub/`: introspect the system, see [hub.md] (privileged components only)

## Namespace Participants

Here is some more information about a few abstractions which interact with
and support the Fuchsia namespace protocol.

### Filesystems

Filesystems make files available in namespaces.

A filesystem is simply a component which publishes file-like objects which
are included in someone else's namespace.

### Services

Services live in namespaces.

A service is a well-known object which provides an implementation of a FIDL
interface which can be discovered using the namespace.

A service name corresponds to a path within the `svc` branch of the namespace
from which a component can access an implementation of the service.

For example, the name of the default Fuchsia logging service is
`fuchsia.logger.Log` and its location in the namespace is
`svc/fuchsia.logger.Log`.

### Components

Components consume and extend namespaces.

A component is an executable program object which has been instantiated
within some environment and given a namespace.

A component participates in the Fuchsia namespace in two ways:

1. It can use objects from the namespace which it received from its environment,
   notably to access its own package contents and incoming services.

2. It can publish objects through its environment in the form of a namespace,
   parts of which its environment may subsequently make available to other
   components upon request.  This is how services are implemented by
   components.

### Environments

Environments construct namespaces.

An environment is a container of components.  Each environment is responsible
for _constructing_ the namespace which its components will receive.

The environment decides what objects a component may access and how the
component's request for services by name will be bound to specific
implementations.

## FIDL Interfaces

_TODO(jeffbrown): Explain how the namespace interfaces work._

Commit message:

[the-book] Add more detail about configuration data in components
This adds a bit more detail about the way configuration data is exposed
to components:
- namespaces.md now describes the /config space
- package_metadata.md now describes what configuration data is provided
by the `vulkan` feature

Change-Id: I438652ed738ffd2c8337ff2be0d14b4b3b2ee1ef

the-book/namespaces.md, after:

# Fuchsia Namespaces

Namespaces are the backbone of file access and service discovery in Fuchsia.

## Definition

A namespace is a composite hierarchy of files, directories, sockets, services,
devices, and other named objects which are provided to a component by its
environment.

Let's unpack that a little bit.

**Objects are named**: The namespace contains _objects_ which can be enumerated
and accessed by name, much like listing a directory or opening a file.

**Composite hierarchy**: The namespace is a _tree_ of objects which has been
assembled by _combining_ together subtrees of objects from other namespaces
into a composite structure where each part has been assigned a path prefix
by convention.

**Namespace per component**: Every component receives its own namespace
tailored to meet its own needs.  It can also publish objects of its own
to be included in other namespaces.

**Constructed by the environment**: The environment which instantiates a
component is responsible for constructing an appropriate namespace for that
component within that scope.

Namespaces can also be created and used independently from components although
this document focuses on typical component-bound usage.

## Namespaces in Action

You have probably already spent some time exploring a Fuchsia namespace;
they are everywhere.  If you type `ls /` at a command-line shell prompt
you will see a list of some of the objects which are accessible from the
shell's namespace.

Unlike other operating systems, Fuchsia does not have a "root filesystem".
As described earlier, namespaces are defined per-component rather than
globally or per-process.

This has some interesting implications:

- There is no global "root" namespace.
- There is no concept of "running in a chroot-ed environment" because every
  component [effectively has its own private "root"](dotdot.md).
- Components receive namespaces which are tailored to their specific needs.
- Object paths may not be meaningful across namespace boundaries.
- A process may have access to several distinct namespaces at once.
- The mechanisms used to control access to files can also be used to control
  access to services and other named objects on a per-component basis.

## Objects

The items within a namespace are called objects.  They come in various flavors,
including:

- Files: objects which contain binary data
- Directories: objects which contain other objects
- Sockets: objects which establish connections when opened, like named pipes
- Services: objects which provide FIDL services when opened
- Devices: objects which provide access to hardware resources

### Accessing Objects

To access an object within a namespace, you must already have another object
in your possession.  A component typically receives channel handles for
objects in the scope of its namespace during
[Namespace Transfer](#namespace-transfer).

You can also create new objects out of thin air by implementing the
appropriate FIDL interfaces.

Given an object's channel, you can open a channel for one of its sub-objects
by sending it a FIDL message which includes an object relative path expression
which identifies the desired sub-object.  This is much like opening files
in a directory.

Notice that you can only access objects which are reachable from the ones
you already have access to.  There is no ambient authority.

We will now define how object names and paths are constructed.

### Object Names

An object name is a locally unique label by which an object can be located
within a container (such as a directory).  Note that the name is a property
of the container's table of sub-objects rather than a property of the object
itself.

For example, `cat` designates a furry object located within some unspecified
recipient of an `Open()` request.

Objects are fundamentally nameless but they may be called many names by others.

Object names are represented as binary octet strings (arbitrary sequences
of bytes) subject to the following constraints:

- Minimum length of 1 byte.
- Maximum length of 255 bytes.
- Does not contain NULs (zero-valued bytes).
- Does not contain `/`.
- Does not equal `.` or `..`.
- Always compared using byte-for-byte equality (implies case-sensitive).

Object names are valid arguments to a container's `Open()` method.
See [FIDL Interfaces](#fidl-interfaces).

It is intended that object names be encoded and interpreted as human-readable
sequences of UTF-8 graphic characters, however this property is not enforced
by the namespace itself.

Consequently clients are responsible for deciding how to present names
which contain invalid, undisplayable, or ambiguous character sequences to
the user.

_TODO(jeffbrown): Document a specific strategy for how to present names._

### Object Relative Path Expressions

An object relative path expression is an object name or a `/`-delimited
sequence of object names designating a sequence of nested objects to be
traversed in order to locate an object within a container (such as a
directory).

For example, `house/box/cat` designates a furry object located within its
containing object called `box` located within its containing object called
`house` located within some unspecified recipient of an `Open()` request.

An object relative path expression always traverses deeper into the namespace.
Notably, the namespace does not directly support upwards traversal out of
containers (e.g. via `..`) but this feature may be partially emulated by
clients (see below).

Object relative path expressions have the following additional constraints:

- Minimum length of 1 byte.
- Maximum length of 4095 bytes.
- Does not begin or end with `/`.
- All segments are valid object names.
- Always compared using byte-for-byte equality (implies case-sensitive).

Object relative path expressions are valid arguments to a container's `Open()`
method.  See [FIDL Interfaces](#fidl-interfaces).

### Client Interpreted Path Expressions

A client interpreted path expression is a generalization of object relative
path expressions which includes optional features which may be emulated
by client code to enhance compatibility with programs which expect a rooted
file-like interface.

Technically these features are beyond the scope of the Fuchsia namespace
protocol itself but they are often used so we describe them here.

- A client may designate one of its namespaces to function as its "root".
  This namespace is denoted `/`.
- A client may construct paths relative to its designated root namespace
  by prepending a single `/`.
- A client may construct paths which traverse upwards from containers using
  `..` path segments by folding segments together (assuming the container's
  path is known) through a process known as client-side "canonicalization".
- These features may be combined together.

For example, `/places/house/box/../sofa/cat` designates a furry object
located at `places/house/sofa/cat` within some client designated "root"
container.

Client interpreted path expressions that contain these optional features
are not valid arguments to a container's `Open()` method; they must be
translated by the client prior to communicating with the namespace.
See [FIDL Interfaces](#fidl-interfaces).

For example, `fdio` implements client-side interpretation of `..` paths
in file manipulation APIs such as `open()`, `stat()`, `unlink()`, etc.

## Namespace Transfer

When a component is instantiated in an environment (e.g. its process is
started), it receives a table which maps one or more namespace path prefixes
to object handles.

The path prefixes in the table encode the intended significance of their
associated objects by convention.  For example, the `pkg` prefix should
be associated with a directory object which contains the component's own
binaries and assets.

More on this in the next section.

## Namespace Conventions

This section describes the conventional layout of namespaces for typical
components running on Fuchsia.

The precise contents and organization of a component's namespace varies
greatly depending on the component's role, type, identity, scope,
relation to other components, and rights. See [sandboxing.md] for information
about how namespaces are used to create sandboxes for components.

_For more information about the namespace your component can expect to
receive from its environment, please consult the documentation related to
the component type you are implementing._

### Typical Objects

There are some typical objects which a component namespace might contain:

- Read-only executables and assets from the component's package.
- Private local persistent storage.
- Private temporary storage.
- Services offered to the component by the system, the component framework,
  or by the client which started it.
- Device nodes (for drivers and privileged components).
- Configuration information.

### Typical Directory Structure

- `pkg/`: the contents of the current program's package
  - `bin/`: executable binaries within the package
  - `lib/`: shared libraries within the package
  - `data/`: data, such as assets, within the package
- `data/`: local persistent storage (read-write, private to the package)
- `tmp/`: temporary storage (read-write, private to the package)
- `svc/`: services offered to the component
  - `fuchsia.process.Launcher`: launch processes
  - `fuchsia.logger.Log`: log messages
  - `vendor.topic.Interface`: service defined by a _vendor_
- `dev/`: device tree (relevant portions visible to privileged components as needed)
  - `class/`, ...
- `hub/`: introspect the system, see [hub.md] (privileged components only)
- `config/`: configuration data for the component

## Namespace Participants

Here is some more information about a few abstractions which interact with
and support the Fuchsia namespace protocol.

### Filesystems

Filesystems make files available in namespaces.

A filesystem is simply a component which publishes file-like objects which
are included in someone else's namespace.

### Services

Services live in namespaces.

A service is a well-known object which provides an implementation of a FIDL
interface which can be discovered using the namespace.

A service name corresponds to a path within the `svc` branch of the namespace
from which a component can access an implementation of the service.

For example, the name of the default Fuchsia logging service is
`fuchsia.logger.Log` and its location in the namespace is
`svc/fuchsia.logger.Log`.

### Components

Components consume and extend namespaces.

A component is an executable program object which has been instantiated
within some environment and given a namespace.

A component participates in the Fuchsia namespace in two ways:

1. It can use objects from the namespace which it received from its environment,
   notably to access its own package contents and incoming services.

2. It can publish objects through its environment in the form of a namespace,
   parts of which its environment may subsequently make available to other
   components upon request.  This is how services are implemented by
   components.

### Environments

Environments construct namespaces.

An environment is a container of components.  Each environment is responsible
for _constructing_ the namespace which its components will receive.

The environment decides what objects a component may access and how the
component's request for services by name will be bound to specific
implementations.

### Configuration

Components may have different kinds of configuration data exposed to them
depending on the features listed in their [Component
Manifest](package_metadata.md#Component-Manifest) which are exposed as files in
the /config namespace entry. These are defined by the feature set of the
component.

## FIDL Interfaces

_TODO(jeffbrown): Explain how the namespace interfaces work._
