the-book/package_metadata.md, before:

# Fuchsia Package Metadata

The Fuchsia package format contains an extensive metadata directory. This
document describes the metadata extensions that are understood by Fuchsia
itself.

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#Structure-of-a-Fuchsia-Package] for
more information about where these files appear in a package.

## metadata

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#metadata]

## contents

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#contents]

## signature

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#signature]

## runtime

The runtime file specifies if execution of the component in the package
should be delegated to another process.

The runtime file is a JSON object with the following schema:

```
{
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "runner": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "required": [ "runner" ]
    }
}
```

The `runner` property names another component (or a package that contains
one) to which execution is to be delegated. The target component must expose
the [`Runner`][runner] service.

## Component Manifest

A Component Manifest (.cmx) is a JSON file with the file extension .cmx
located in the package’s meta directory with information about the component.

If the package name for your component is `sysmgr`, your component manifest
must be `sysmgr.cmx`.

Currently, the component manifest supports declaring sandboxing metadata.

```
{
    "program": {
        "binary": "bin/app"
    },
    "sandbox": {
        "system": [ "data/sysmgr" ]
    }
}
```

### sandbox

The sandbox property in the component manifest controls the environment in
which the component executes. Specifically, the property controls
which directories the component can access during execution. Currently,
whitelisting access to individual files is not supported (CP-52).

The sandbox property is a JSON object with the following schema:

```
{
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "dev": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "system": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "pkgfs": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "features": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

The `dev` array contains a list of well-known device directories that are
provided to the component. For example, if the string `class/input` appears in
the `dev` array, then `/dev/class/input` will appear in the namespaces of components
loaded from the package. To whitelist access to a `misc` device, such as
`/dev/misc/sysinfo`, add the string `misc` to the `dev` array. Unfortunately,
whitelisting access to individual `misc` devices is not possible currently.

The `system` array contains a list of well-known paths within the system package
that are provided to the component. For example, if the string `bin` appears
in the `system` array, then `/system/bin` will appear in the namespaces of
components loaded from the package.

The `pkgfs` array contains a list of well-known paths within the pkgfs tree
that are provided to the component. For example, if the string `packages`
appears in the `pkgfs` array, then `/pkgfs/packages` will appear in the
namespaces of components loaded from the package, providing access to all
packages fully cached on the system.

The `features` array contains a list of well-known features that the package
wishes to use. Including a feature in this list is a request for the environment
in which the contents of the package execute to be given the resources required
to use that feature.

The set of currently known features are as follows:

- `introspection`, which requests access to introspect the system. The
  introspection namespace will be located at `/info_experimental`.

- `persistent-storage`, which requests access to persistent storage for the
  device, located in `/data` in the package's namespace. (Future work will
  likely make this access more fine-grained than just the `/data` directory.)

- `root-ssl-certificates`, which requests access to the root SSL certificates
  for the device. These certicates are provided in the `/config/ssl` directory
  in the package's namespace.

- `shell`, which requests access to the resources appropriate for an interactive
  command line. Typically, shells are granted access to all the resources
  available in the current environment. Currently, when a package requests the
  `shell` feature, the package loads shared libraries from `/system/lib` instead
  of from its own package. This behavior will probably change over time, but we
  do this currently so that programs that are run from the shell can find their
  shared libraries. The `shell` feature also implies the `root-ssl-certificates`
  feature.

- `system-temp`, which requests access to the system temp directory, located at
  `/tmp` in the package's namespace. (Future work will likely remove access to
  the system temp directory in favor of a local temp directory for each
  process.)

- `vulkan`, which requests access to the resources required to use the Vulkan
  graphics interface.

See [sandboxing.md](sandboxing.md) for more information about sandboxing.


[runner]: https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/public/lib/app/fidl/runner.fidl

Commit message:

[the-book] Add more detail about configuration data in components
This adds a bit more detail about the way configuration data is exposed
to components:
- namespaces.md now describes the /config space
- package_metadata.md now describes what configuration data is provided
by the `vulkan` feature

Change-Id: I438652ed738ffd2c8337ff2be0d14b4b3b2ee1ef

the-book/package_metadata.md, after:

# Fuchsia Package Metadata

The Fuchsia package format contains an extensive metadata directory. This
document describes the metadata extensions that are understood by Fuchsia
itself.

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#Structure-of-a-Fuchsia-Package] for
more information about where these files appear in a package.

## metadata

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#metadata]

## contents

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#contents]

## signature

See [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/go/src/pm#signature]

## runtime

The runtime file specifies if execution of the component in the package
should be delegated to another process.

The runtime file is a JSON object with the following schema:

```
{
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "runner": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "required": [ "runner" ]
    }
}
```

The `runner` property names another component (or a package that contains
one) to which execution is to be delegated. The target component must expose
the [`Runner`][runner] service.

## Component Manifest

A Component Manifest (.cmx) is a JSON file with the file extension .cmx
located in the package’s meta directory with information about the component.

If the package name for your component is `sysmgr`, your component manifest
must be `sysmgr.cmx`.

Currently, the component manifest supports declaring sandboxing metadata.

```
{
    "program": {
        "binary": "bin/app"
    },
    "sandbox": {
        "system": [ "data/sysmgr" ]
    }
}
```

### sandbox

The sandbox property in the component manifest controls the environment in
which the component executes. Specifically, the property controls
which directories the component can access during execution. Currently,
whitelisting access to individual files is not supported (CP-52).

The sandbox property is a JSON object with the following schema:

```
{
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "dev": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "system": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "pkgfs": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "features": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

The `dev` array contains a list of well-known device directories that are
provided to the component. For example, if the string `class/input` appears in
the `dev` array, then `/dev/class/input` will appear in the namespaces of components
loaded from the package. To whitelist access to a `misc` device, such as
`/dev/misc/sysinfo`, add the string `misc` to the `dev` array. Unfortunately,
whitelisting access to individual `misc` devices is not possible currently.

The `system` array contains a list of well-known paths within the system package
that are provided to the component. For example, if the string `bin` appears
in the `system` array, then `/system/bin` will appear in the namespaces of
components loaded from the package.

The `pkgfs` array contains a list of well-known paths within the pkgfs tree
that are provided to the component. For example, if the string `packages`
appears in the `pkgfs` array, then `/pkgfs/packages` will appear in the
namespaces of components loaded from the package, providing access to all
packages fully cached on the system.

The `features` array contains a list of well-known features that the package
wishes to use. Including a feature in this list is a request for the environment
in which the contents of the package execute to be given the resources required
to use that feature.

The set of currently known features are as follows:

- `introspection`, which requests access to introspect the system. The
  introspection namespace will be located at `/info_experimental`.

- `persistent-storage`, which requests access to persistent storage for the
  device, located in `/data` in the package's namespace. (Future work will
  likely make this access more fine-grained than just the `/data` directory.)

- `root-ssl-certificates`, which requests access to the root SSL certificates
  for the device. These certicates are provided in the `/config/ssl` directory
  in the package's namespace.

- `shell`, which requests access to the resources appropriate for an interactive
  command line. Typically, shells are granted access to all the resources
  available in the current environment. Currently, when a package requests the
  `shell` feature, the package loads shared libraries from `/system/lib` instead
  of from its own package. This behavior will probably change over time, but we
  do this currently so that programs that are run from the shell can find their
  shared libraries. The `shell` feature also implies the `root-ssl-certificates`
  feature.

- `system-temp`, which requests access to the system temp directory, located at
  `/tmp` in the package's namespace. (Future work will likely remove access to
  the system temp directory in favor of a local temp directory for each
  process.)

- `vulkan`, which requests access to the resources required to use the Vulkan
  graphics interface. This adds layer configuration data in the `/config/vulkan`
  directory in the package's namespace.

See [sandboxing.md](sandboxing.md) for more information about sandboxing.


[runner]: https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/public/lib/app/fidl/runner.fidl
