the-book/sandboxing.md, before:

# Sandboxing

This document describes how sandboxing works in Fuchsia.

## An empty process has nothing

On Fuchsia, a newly created process has nothing. A newly created process cannot
access any kernel objects, cannot allocate memory, and cannot even execute code.
Of course, such a process isn't very useful, which is why we typically create
processes with some initial resources and capabilities.

Most commonly, a process starts executing some code with an initial stack, some
command line arguments, environment variables, a set of initial handles. One of
the most important initial handles is the `PA_VMAR_ROOT`, which the process can
use to map additional memory into its address space.

## Namespaces are the gateway to the world

Some of the initial handles given to a process are directories that the process
mounts into its _namespace_. These handles let the process discover and
communicate with other processes running on the system, including file systems
and other servers. See [Namespaces](namespaces.md) for more details.

The namespace given to a process strongly influences how much of the system the
process can influence. Therefore, configuring the sandbox in which a process
runs amounts to configuring the process's namespace.

## Packages and namespaces

In our current implementation, a process runs in a sandbox if its binary is
contained in a package. As the package manager evolves, these details are
likely to change.

An component run from a package is given access to two namespaces by default:

 * `/svc`, which is a bundle of services from the environment in which the
   component runs.
 * `/pkg`, which is a read-only view of the package containing the component.

A typical component will interact with a number of services from `/svc` in
order to play some useful role in the system.

To access these resources at runtime, a process can use the `/pkg` namespace.
For example, the `root_presenter` can access `cursor32.png` using the absolute
path `/pkg/data/cursor32.png`.

## Configuring additional namespaces

If a process requires access to additional resources (e.g., device drivers),
the package can request access to additional names by including the `sandbox`
property in its  [Component Manifest](package_metadata.md#Component-Manifest)
for the package. For example, the following `meta/sandbox` file requests
direct access to the input driver:

```
{
    "dev": [ "class/input" ]
}
```

In the current implementation, the [AppMgr](../glossary.md#AppMgr) grants all such
requests, but that is likely to change as the system evolves.

## Building a package

To build a package, use the `package()` macro in `gn` defined in
[`//build/package.gni`](https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/build/+/master/package.gni).
See the documentation for the `package()` macro for details about including resources.

For examples, see [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/packages/prod/fortune]
and [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/bin/fortune/BUILD.gn].

Commit message:

[the-book] Update cmx sandboxing doc.
This brings the doc up to date with all the current features of cmx,
including the new "services" sandbox.

Change-Id: Id2354fec70fcbe13075b960104a0b271843c20b8

the-book/sandboxing.md, after:

# Sandboxing

This document describes how sandboxing works in Fuchsia.

## An empty process has nothing

On Fuchsia, a newly created process has nothing. A newly created process cannot
access any kernel objects, cannot allocate memory, and cannot even execute code.
Of course, such a process isn't very useful, which is why we typically create
processes with some initial resources and capabilities.

Most commonly, a process starts executing some code with an initial stack, some
command line arguments, environment variables, a set of initial handles. One of
the most important initial handles is the `PA_VMAR_ROOT`, which the process can
use to map additional memory into its address space.

## Namespaces are the gateway to the world

Some of the initial handles given to a process are directories that the process
mounts into its _namespace_. These handles let the process discover and
communicate with other processes running on the system, including file systems
and other servers. See [Namespaces](namespaces.md) for more details.

The namespace given to a process strongly influences how much of the system the
process can influence. Therefore, configuring the sandbox in which a process
runs amounts to configuring the process's namespace.

## Packages and namespaces

In our current implementation, a process runs in a sandbox if its binary is
contained in a package. As the package manager evolves, these details are
likely to change.

An component run from a package is given a read-only view of its package
contents in `/pkg`. To access these resources at runtime, a process can use
the `/pkg` namespace. For example, the `root_presenter` can access
`cursor32.png` using the absolute path `/pkg/data/cursor32.png`.

Another important part of the component's namespace is `/svc`, which renders
access to services in the component's sandbox. A typical component will
interact with a number of services from `/svc` in order to play some useful
role in the system. The set of services that a component has access to is
governed by its [`services`](package_metadata.md#Component-Manifest) sandbox.
For example, the service `fuchsia.sys.Launcher` allows the component to launch
other components.

## Configuring additional namespaces

If a process requires access to additional resources (e.g., device drivers),
the package can request access to additional names by including the `sandbox`
property in its  [Component Manifest](package_metadata.md#Component-Manifest)
for the package. For example, the following `meta/sandbox` file requests
direct access to the input driver:

```
{
    "dev": [ "class/input" ]
}
```

In the current implementation, the [AppMgr](../glossary.md#AppMgr) grants all such
requests, but that is likely to change as the system evolves.

## Building a package

To build a package, use the `package()` macro in `gn` defined in
[`//build/package.gni`](https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/build/+/master/package.gni).
See the documentation for the `package()` macro for details about including resources.

For examples, see [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/packages/prod/fortune]
and [https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/garnet/+/master/bin/fortune/BUILD.gn].
