# fidlmerge

A host tool for generating arbitrary code from FIDL namespace JSON.

fidlmerge merges the FIDL namespace JSON generated by the FIDL compiler front
end with a template. Templates are based on go's [text/template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) package.

## Usage

``` bash
fidlmerge -template <template path> -json <json path> -output-base <output file base name>
```

Example templates reside in the examples subdirectory.

The json path is something like out/x64/fidling/gen/garnet/public/lib/netstack/fidl.fidl.json.

The output file base name is used to generate output file names. The template
can add extensions to the base name.

## Templates

Template format documentation is [here](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
Also see the example templates in the examples subdirectory.

Template files contain multiple named templates. The `main` template is invoked
initially and given a `main.Root` struct
(see generator.go) as the *dot* value. Text generated by the template is routed
to stdout, which will be unsuitable for most purposes. Normally, the `main`
template will use `main.Root.Generate` to generate a specific file or files.
Here, for example, we're generating two files, one a .h and the other a .cc:

```
{{- define "Main" }}
    {{- $include_path := .Output ".h" }}
    {{- $implementation_path := .Output ".cc" }}
    {{ .Generate $include_path "IncludeFile" . }}
    {{ .Generate $implementation_path "ImplementationFile" . }}
{{ end }}
```

The .h file is generated by a template named `IncludeFile`, and the .cc file is
generated by a template named `ImplmentationFile`.

`main.Root` provides the `.Output` and `.Generate` methods. The description of
the FIDL namespace is defined by `types.Root` (in fidl/compiler/backend/types),
which is part of `main.Root`.
