go/src/fidlmerge/README.md, before:

# fidlmerge

A host tool for generating arbitrary code from FIDL namespace JSON.

fidlmerge merges the FIDL namespace JSON generated by the FIDL compiler front
end with a template. Templates are based on go's [text/template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) package.

## Usage

``` bash
fidlmerge -template <template path> -json <json path> -output-base <output file base name>
```

Example templates reside in the examples subdirectory.

The json path is something like out/x64/fidling/gen/garnet/public/lib/netstack/fidl.fidl.json.

The output file base name is used to generate output file names. The template
can add extensions to the base name.

## Templates

Template format documentation is [here](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
Also see the example templates in the examples subdirectory.

Template files contain multiple named templates. The `main` template is invoked
initially and given a `main.Root` struct
(see generator.go) as the *dot* value. Text generated by the template is routed
to stdout, which will be unsuitable for most purposes. Normally, the `main`
template will use `main.Root.Generate` to generate a specific file or files.
Here, for example, we're generating two files, one a .h and the other a .cc:

```
{{- define "Main" }}
    {{- $include_path := .Output ".h" }}
    {{- $implementation_path := .Output ".cc" }}
    {{ .Generate $include_path "IncludeFile" . }}
    {{ .Generate $implementation_path "ImplementationFile" . }}
{{ end }}
```

The .h file is generated by a template named `IncludeFile`, and the .cc file is
generated by a template named `ImplmentationFile`.

`main.Root` provides the `.Output` and `.Generate` methods. The description of
the FIDL namespace is defined by `types.Root` (in fidl/compiler/backend/types),
which is part of `main.Root`.

Commit message:

[fidlmerge] 'get options' as function rather than method
This CL renames the root.GetOption* method to getOption* functions.
The methods are problematic, because a template needs access to root
in order to invoke them. Options can have effects that are quite far
from the root, and the single-parameter limitation of templates makes
it difficult to use root methods in many templates.

TESTED: Manual test - verified C++ code generation still works

Change-Id: I6ee7797ddd096a11b08ba390d73f84ab972a33ca

go/src/fidlmerge/README.md, after:

# fidlmerge

A host tool for generating arbitrary code from FIDL namespace JSON.

fidlmerge merges the FIDL namespace JSON generated by the FIDL compiler front
end with a template. Templates are based on go's [text/template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) package.

## Usage

``` bash
fidlmerge -template <template path> -json <json path> -output-base <output file base name> [ -options key=value,... ]
```

Example templates reside in the examples subdirectory.

The json path is something like out/x64/fidling/gen/garnet/public/lib/netstack/fidl.fidl.json.

The output file base name is used to generate output file names. The template
can add extensions to the base name.

Options can be accessed by templates using the getOption function or one of its
variants.

## Templates

Template format documentation is [here](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
Also see the example templates in the examples subdirectory.

Template files contain multiple named templates. The `main` template is invoked
initially and given a `main.Root` struct
(see generator.go) as the *dot* value. Text generated by the template is routed
to stdout, which will be unsuitable for most purposes. Normally, the `main`
template will use `main.Root.Generate` to generate a specific file or files.
Here, for example, we're generating two files, one a .h and the other a .cc:

```
{{- define "Main" }}
    {{- $include_path := .Output ".h" }}
    {{- $implementation_path := .Output ".cc" }}
    {{ .Generate $include_path "IncludeFile" . }}
    {{ .Generate $implementation_path "ImplementationFile" . }}
{{ end }}
```

The .h file is generated by a template named `IncludeFile`, and the .cc file is
generated by a template named `ImplmentationFile`.

`main.Root` provides the `.Output` and `.Generate` methods. The description of
the FIDL namespace is defined by `types.Root` (in fidl/compiler/backend/types),
which is part of `main.Root`.
