docs/targets/nuc.md, before:

# Intel NUC (Skylake and Broadwell)

WARNING:  These are directions to configure a NUC machine to load and boot an
experimental, in-development OS.


## NUC Setup & Configuration

These instructions configure the NUC machine to boot from a USB flash drive.
This is a necessary step for _network boot_, where the bootloader on your USB
drive pulls your freshly-built OS across the network, from host machine to NUC.

1. Install memory (and optional SSD)
  + Remove four bottom plate screws and bottom plate
  + Install memory in the DIMM slot(s)
  + (Optional) Install SSD in M.2 slot (SATA support only; NVMe lacks a driver)
2. Boot the machine into Visual BIOS
  + Reinstall the bottom plate, attach power, and start the machine
  + Press F2 during startup to enter Visual BIOS setup
  + Mouse will be required, due to the wonders of Visual BIOS
3. Disable BIOS updates from internet (setting may not be present in newer NUCs)
  + Select the Wrench menu (upper right), then Visual Bios Settings
  + Deselect __Internet Updates__
4. Verify that your memory (and SSD) are correctly installed and detected
  + Select Advanced settings, then Main section
  + Right-side Memory Information pane shoudl list your memory
  + Switch to Devices section
  + Select PCI tab, verify that __M.2 Slot__ is enabled
  + Select SATA tab, verify that __Chipset SATA__ is enabled
  + Both tabs (PCI and SATA) should show your SSD
5. Disable USB legacy and legacy boot
  + Still in Devices section, select USB tab
  + Deselect __USB Legacy__ support
  + In Boot section, select Priority tab
  + Deselect __Legacy Boot__ (in right-side Legacy Boot Priority pane)
6. Configure boot ordering
  + Select Boot Configuration tab
  + Enable __Boot USB Devices First__, __Boot Network Devices Last__, and
  __Unlimited Boot to Network Attempts__
  + Network Boot (bottom left pane) should display _UEFI PXE & iSCSI_.
    __Note__: DO NOT disable netbooting here or netbooting from Gigaboot and
    Zedboot may not work.
7. Save BIOS changes
  + Press F10 (or click the top right (x) button) to Save and Exit, Y to confirm
  + Device will automatically reboot and begin looking for a USB or network boot
8. Power down the NUC
9. Continue to [Bootloader setup with USB flash drive](bootloader_setup.md)


### Important: network booting only works with the NUC's *built-in* ethernet
### Net-boot via USB-ethernet dongle is unsupported

Commit message:

[docs] Add description to disable Secure Boot on new NUC.
Test: No needed.

Change-Id: I0d50082aa4f8f7f5afb4d4faf871ffa42e32ade1

docs/targets/nuc.md, after:

# Intel NUC (Skylake and Broadwell)

WARNING:  These are directions to configure a NUC machine to load and boot an
experimental, in-development OS.


## NUC Setup & Configuration

These instructions configure the NUC machine to boot from a USB flash drive.
This is a necessary step for _network boot_, where the bootloader on your USB
drive pulls your freshly-built OS across the network, from host machine to NUC.

1. Install memory (and optional SSD)
  + Remove four bottom plate screws and bottom plate
  + Install memory in the DIMM slot(s)
  + (Optional) Install SSD in M.2 slot (SATA support only; NVMe lacks a driver)
2. Boot the machine into Visual BIOS
  + Reinstall the bottom plate, attach power, and start the machine
  + Press F2 during startup to enter Visual BIOS setup
  + Mouse will be required, due to the wonders of Visual BIOS
3. Disable BIOS updates from internet (setting may not be present in newer NUCs)
  + Select the Wrench menu (upper right), then Visual Bios Settings
  + Deselect __Internet Updates__
4. Verify that your memory (and SSD) are correctly installed and detected
  + Select Advanced settings, then Main section
  + Right-side Memory Information pane shoudl list your memory
  + Switch to Devices section
  + Select PCI tab, verify that __M.2 Slot__ is enabled
  + Select SATA tab, verify that __Chipset SATA__ is enabled
  + Both tabs (PCI and SATA) should show your SSD
5. Disable USB legacy and legacy boot
  + Still in Devices section, select USB tab
  + Deselect __USB Legacy__ support
  + In Boot section, select Priority tab
  + Deselect __Legacy Boot__ (in right-side Legacy Boot Priority pane)
  + If you see a Secure Boot tab,
  + Deselect Secure Boot in the tab (otherwise you will see an "Image Authorization Fail" while booting USB).
6. Configure boot ordering
  + Select Boot Configuration tab
  + Enable __Boot USB Devices First__, __Boot Network Devices Last__, and
  __Unlimited Boot to Network Attempts__
  + Network Boot (bottom left pane) should display _UEFI PXE & iSCSI_.
    __Note__: DO NOT disable netbooting here or netbooting from Gigaboot and
    Zedboot may not work.
7. Save BIOS changes
  + Press F10 (or click the top right (x) button) to Save and Exit, Y to confirm
  + Device will automatically reboot and begin looking for a USB or network boot
8. Power down the NUC
9. Continue to [Bootloader setup with USB flash drive](bootloader_setup.md)


### Important: network booting only works with the NUC's *built-in* ethernet
### Net-boot via USB-ethernet dongle is unsupported
