docs/syscalls/object_get_property.md, before:

# zx_object_get_property, zx_object_set_property

## NAME

object_get_property - Ask for various properties of various kernel objects.

object_set_property - Set various properties of various kernel objects.

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>
#include <zircon/syscalls/object.h>

zx_status_t zx_object_get_property(zx_handle_t handle, uint32_t property,
                                   void* value, size_t value_size);

zx_status_t zx_object_set_property(zx_handle_t handle, uint32_t property,
                                   const void* value, size_t value_size);
```

## DESCRIPTION

**zx_object_get_property()** requests the value of a kernel object's property.
Getting a property requires **ZX_RIGHT_GET_PROPERTY** rights on the handle.

**zx_object_set_property()** modifies the value of a kernel object's property.
Setting a property requires **ZX_RIGHT_SET_PROPERTY** rights on the handle.

The *handle* parameter indicates the target kernel object. Different properties
only work on certain types of kernel objects, as described below.

The *property* parameter indicates which property to get/set. Property values
have the prefix **ZX_PROP_**, and are described below.

The *value* parameter holds the property value, and must be a pointer to a
buffer of *size* bytes. Different properties expect different value types/sizes
as described below.

## PROPERTIES

Property values have the prefix **ZX_PROP_**, and are defined in

```
#include <zircon/syscalls/object.h>
```

### ZX_PROP_NAME

*handle* type: **(Most types)**

*value* type: **char\[ZX_MAX_NAME_LEN\]**

Allowed operations: **get**, **set**

The name of the object, as a NUL-terminated string.

### ZX_PROP_REGISTER_FS and ZX_PROP_REGISTER_GS

*handle* type: **Thread**

*value* type: **uintptr_t**

Allowed operations: **set**

The value of the x86 FS or GS segment register. `value` must be a
canonical address, and must be a userspace address.

Only defined for x86-64.

### ZX_PROP_PROCESS_DEBUG_ADDR

*handle* type: **Process**

*value* type: **uintptr_t**

Allowed operations: **get**, **set**

The value of ld.so's `_dl_debug_addr`.

### ZX_PROP_PROCESS_VDSO_BASE_ADDRESS

*handle* type: **Process**

*value* type: **uintptr_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The base address of the vDSO mapping, or zero.

### ZX_PROP_JOB_IMPORTANCE

*handle* type: **Job**

*value* type: **zx_job_importance_t**

Allowed operations: **get**, **set**

A hint about how important a job is; used to rank jobs for the out-of-memory
(OOM) killer.

Additional errors:

*   **ZX_ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE**: If the importance value is not valid

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_RX_BUF_MAX

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The maximum size of the receive buffer of a socket, in bytes. The receive
buffer may become full at a capacity less than the maximum due to overheads.

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_RX_BUF_SIZE

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The size of the receive buffer of a socket, in bytes.

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_TX_BUF_MAX

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The maximum size of the transmit buffer of a socket, in bytes. The transmit
buffer may become full at a capacity less than the maximum due to overheads.

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_TX_BUF_SIZE

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The size of the transmit buffer of a socket, in bytes.

### ZX_PROP_CHANNEL_TX_MSG_MAX

*handle* type: **Channel**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The maximum number of packets a channel endpoint can have pending in
its outgoing direction.

## RETURN VALUE

**zx_object_get_property**() returns **ZX_OK** on success. In the event of
failure, a negative error value is returned.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE**: *handle* is not a valid handle

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE**: *handle* is not an appropriate type for *property*

**ZX_ERR_ACCESS_DENIED**: *handle* does not have the necessary rights for the
operation

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**: *value* is an invalid pointer

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY**  Failure due to lack of memory.
There is no good way for userspace to handle this (unlikely) error.
In a future build this error will no longer occur.

**ZX_ERR_BUFFER_TOO_SMALL**: *value_size* is too small for *property*

**ZX_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED**: *property* does not exist

## SEE ALSO

[object_set_property](object_set_property.md)

Commit message:

[loader] Allow break on loader initialization.
The loader sets the process property ZX_PROP_PROCESS_DEBUG_ADDR, when it
initializes. This can be used for debuggers to get the list of loaded
libraries and to set breakpoints on library loads.

But since this is set programatically by the process code itself, the
debugger has no way to know when the query this property. If it does not
get queried before user code runs, symbolic breakpoints will not work.

This patch adds a constant that the debugger can set this property to
before execution starts. The loader checks for this and if set, issues a
manual debug breakpoint after the value is set.

A debugger can then catch this breakpoint, complete setup with the
correct debug address, and continue program execution.

TEST=manual

Change-Id: I63fc824531d1f7b09029ea01be5a93e1e9abddbb

docs/syscalls/object_get_property.md, after:

# zx_object_get_property, zx_object_set_property

## NAME

object_get_property - Ask for various properties of various kernel objects.

object_set_property - Set various properties of various kernel objects.

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>
#include <zircon/syscalls/object.h>

zx_status_t zx_object_get_property(zx_handle_t handle, uint32_t property,
                                   void* value, size_t value_size);

zx_status_t zx_object_set_property(zx_handle_t handle, uint32_t property,
                                   const void* value, size_t value_size);
```

## DESCRIPTION

**zx_object_get_property()** requests the value of a kernel object's property.
Getting a property requires **ZX_RIGHT_GET_PROPERTY** rights on the handle.

**zx_object_set_property()** modifies the value of a kernel object's property.
Setting a property requires **ZX_RIGHT_SET_PROPERTY** rights on the handle.

The *handle* parameter indicates the target kernel object. Different properties
only work on certain types of kernel objects, as described below.

The *property* parameter indicates which property to get/set. Property values
have the prefix **ZX_PROP_**, and are described below.

The *value* parameter holds the property value, and must be a pointer to a
buffer of *size* bytes. Different properties expect different value types/sizes
as described below.

## PROPERTIES

Property values have the prefix **ZX_PROP_**, and are defined in

```
#include <zircon/syscalls/object.h>
```

### ZX_PROP_NAME

*handle* type: **(Most types)**

*value* type: **char\[ZX_MAX_NAME_LEN\]**

Allowed operations: **get**, **set**

The name of the object, as a NUL-terminated string.

### ZX_PROP_REGISTER_FS and ZX_PROP_REGISTER_GS

*handle* type: **Thread**

*value* type: **uintptr_t**

Allowed operations: **set**

The value of the x86 FS or GS segment register. `value` must be a
canonical address, and must be a userspace address.

Only defined for x86-64.

### ZX_PROP_PROCESS_DEBUG_ADDR

*handle* type: **Process**

*value* type: **uintptr_t**

Allowed operations: **get**, **set**

The value of ld.so's `_dl_debug_addr`. This can be used by debuggers to
interrogate the state of the dynamic loader.

If this value is set to `ZX_PROCESS_DEBUG_ADDR_BREAK_ON_SET` on process
creation, the loader will manually issue a debug breakpoint when the property
has been set to its correct value. This gives an opportunity to read or modify
the initial state of the program.

### ZX_PROP_PROCESS_VDSO_BASE_ADDRESS

*handle* type: **Process**

*value* type: **uintptr_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The base address of the vDSO mapping, or zero.

### ZX_PROP_JOB_IMPORTANCE

*handle* type: **Job**

*value* type: **zx_job_importance_t**

Allowed operations: **get**, **set**

A hint about how important a job is; used to rank jobs for the out-of-memory
(OOM) killer.

Additional errors:

*   **ZX_ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE**: If the importance value is not valid

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_RX_BUF_MAX

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The maximum size of the receive buffer of a socket, in bytes. The receive
buffer may become full at a capacity less than the maximum due to overheads.

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_RX_BUF_SIZE

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The size of the receive buffer of a socket, in bytes.

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_TX_BUF_MAX

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The maximum size of the transmit buffer of a socket, in bytes. The transmit
buffer may become full at a capacity less than the maximum due to overheads.

### ZX_PROP_SOCKET_TX_BUF_SIZE

*handle* type: **Socket**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The size of the transmit buffer of a socket, in bytes.

### ZX_PROP_CHANNEL_TX_MSG_MAX

*handle* type: **Channel**

*value* type: **size_t**

Allowed operations: **get**

The maximum number of packets a channel endpoint can have pending in
its outgoing direction.

## RETURN VALUE

**zx_object_get_property**() returns **ZX_OK** on success. In the event of
failure, a negative error value is returned.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE**: *handle* is not a valid handle

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE**: *handle* is not an appropriate type for *property*

**ZX_ERR_ACCESS_DENIED**: *handle* does not have the necessary rights for the
operation

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**: *value* is an invalid pointer

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY**  Failure due to lack of memory.
There is no good way for userspace to handle this (unlikely) error.
In a future build this error will no longer occur.

**ZX_ERR_BUFFER_TOO_SMALL**: *value_size* is too small for *property*

**ZX_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED**: *property* does not exist

## SEE ALSO

[object_set_property](object_set_property.md)
