docs/syscalls/task_suspend.md, before:

# zx_task_suspend

This function is deprecated. Please use
[zx_task_suspend_token](task_suspend_token.md). When all callers have been
updated, this variant will be deleted and **task_suspend_token** will be
renamed to **task_suspend**.

## NAME

task_suspend - suspend the given task

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

void zx_task_suspend(zx_handle_t task);

```

## DESCRIPTION

**task_suspend**() causes the requested task to suspend execution.  If
**task_suspend**() is invoked multiple times on the same task before
**task_resume**() is invoked, the calls are coalesced into a single suspend.

The task will be suspended soon after **task_suspend**() is invoked, unless
it is currently blocked in the kernel, in which case it will suspend after being
unblocked.

Invoking **task_kill**() on a task that is suspended will successfully kill
the task.

## RIGHTS

TODO(ZX-2399)

## RETURN VALUE

**task_suspend**() returns **ZX_OK** on success.
In the event of failure, a negative error value is returned.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE** *handle* is not a valid handle.

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE** *handle* is not a thread handle.

**ZX_ERR_BAD_STATE**  The task is not in a state where suspending is possible.

## LIMITATIONS

Currently only thread handles are supported.

## SEE ALSO

[task_resume](task_resume.md),

Commit message:

[task] Add a zx_task_suspend with the same behavior as zx_task_suspend_token
ZX-2184 #comment
Test: cq

Change-Id: I9de6de21acb57eea5f4d0f515d087cd92dce271e

docs/syscalls/task_suspend.md, after:

# zx_task_suspend

## NAME

task_suspend - suspend the given task. Currently only thread handles
may be suspended.

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

void zx_task_suspend(zx_handle_t task, zx_handle_t* suspend_token);

```

## DESCRIPTION

**task_suspend**() causes the requested task to suspend
execution. Task suspension is not synchronous and the task might not
be suspended before the call returns. The task will be suspended soon
after **task_suspend**() is invoked, unless it is currently blocked in
the kernel, in which case it will suspend after being unblocked.

Invoking **task_kill**() on a task that is suspended will successfully kill
the task.

## RESUMING

The allow the task to resume, close the suspend token handle. The task will
remain suspended as long as there are any open suspend tokens. Like suspending,
resuming is asynchronous so the thread may not be in a running state when the
[handle_close](handle_close.md) call returns, even if no other suspend tokens
are open.

## RIGHTS

TODO(ZX-2399)

## RETURN VALUE

**task_suspend**() returns **ZX_OK** on success.
In the event of failure, a negative error value is returned.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE** *handle* is not a valid handle.

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE** *handle* is not a thread handle.

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**  *suspend_token*  was an invalid pointer.

**ZX_ERR_BAD_STATE**  The task is not in a state where suspending is possible.

## LIMITATIONS

Currently only thread handles are supported.
