docs/syscalls/vmo_create.md, before:

# zx_vmo_create

## NAME

vmo_create - create a VM object

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_vmo_create(uint64_t size, uint32_t options, zx_handle_t* out);

```

## DESCRIPTION

**vmo_create**() creates a new virtual memory object (VMO), which represents
a container of zero to *size* bytes of memory managed by the operating
system.

The size of the VMO will be rounded up to the next page size boundary.
Use **vmo_get_size**() to return the current size of the VMO.

One handle is returned on success, representing an object with the requested
size.

The following rights will be set on the handle by default:

**ZX_RIGHT_DUPLICATE** - The handle may be duplicated.

**ZX_RIGHT_TRANSFER** - The handle may be transferred to another process.

**ZX_RIGHT_READ** - May be read from or mapped with read permissions.

**ZX_RIGHT_WRITE** - May be written to or mapped with write permissions.

**ZX_RIGHT_EXECUTE** - May be mapped with execute permissions.

**ZX_RIGHT_MAP** - May be mapped.

**ZX_RIGHT_GET_PROPERTY** - May get its properties using
[object_get_property](object_get_property).

**ZX_RIGHT_SET_PROPERTY** - May set its properties using
[object_set_property](object_set_property).

The *options* field is currently unused and must be set to 0.

The **ZX_VMO_ZERO_CHILDREN** signal is active on a newly created VMO. It becomes
inactive whenever a clone of the VMO is created and becomes active again when
all clones have been destroyed and no mappings of those clones into address
spaces exist.

## RETURN VALUE

**vmo_create**() returns **ZX_OK** on success. In the event
of failure, a negative error value is returned.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**  *out* is an invalid pointer or NULL or *options* is
any value other than 0.

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY**  Failure due to lack of memory.
There is no good way for userspace to handle this (unlikely) error.
In a future build this error will no longer occur.

## SEE ALSO

[vmo_read](vmo_read.md),
[vmo_write](vmo_write.md),
[vmo_clone](vmo_clone.md),
[vmo_set_size](vmo_set_size.md),
[vmo_get_size](vmo_get_size.md),
[vmo_op_range](vmo_op_range.md),
[vmar_map](vmar_map.md).

Commit message:

[zircon] non-resizable VMOS
This CL introduces the first option for VMO creation
ZX_VMO_NOT_RESIZABLE that 'locks' the size of a root (non-clone) VMO

Also enables the same for COW clones via ZX_VMO_CLONE_NON_RESIZEABLE

This is meant to answer safety hazards of having a client pass
VMOs to servers which the client can resize while the server is
copying data into via a memory map.

Today this is done via ZX_INFO_HANDLE_COUNT but that turns out
is racy.

This CL also cleans up vmo-tests so they using proble_for_read
and probe_for_write instead of using unrelated syscalls to test
memory mappings.

TEST=added unittests in vmo_tests

ZX-2279 #comment progress

Change-Id: If69ce772dcccd92db83f5bda313ae2343ebb448e

docs/syscalls/vmo_create.md, after:

# zx_vmo_create

## NAME

vmo_create - create a VM object

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_vmo_create(uint64_t size, uint32_t options, zx_handle_t* out);

```

## DESCRIPTION

**vmo_create**() creates a new virtual memory object (VMO), which represents
a container of zero to *size* bytes of memory managed by the operating
system.

The size of the VMO will be rounded up to the next page size boundary.
Use **vmo_get_size**() to return the current size of the VMO.

One handle is returned on success, representing an object with the requested
size.

The following rights will be set on the handle by default:

**ZX_RIGHT_DUPLICATE** - The handle may be duplicated.

**ZX_RIGHT_TRANSFER** - The handle may be transferred to another process.

**ZX_RIGHT_READ** - May be read from or mapped with read permissions.

**ZX_RIGHT_WRITE** - May be written to or mapped with write permissions.

**ZX_RIGHT_EXECUTE** - May be mapped with execute permissions.

**ZX_RIGHT_MAP** - May be mapped.

**ZX_RIGHT_GET_PROPERTY** - May get its properties using
[object_get_property](object_get_property).

**ZX_RIGHT_SET_PROPERTY** - May set its properties using
[object_set_property](object_set_property).

The *options* field can be 0 or **ZX_VMO_NON_RESIZABLE** to create a VMO
that cannot change size. Clones of a non-resizable VMO can be resized.

The **ZX_VMO_ZERO_CHILDREN** signal is active on a newly created VMO. It becomes
inactive whenever a clone of the VMO is created and becomes active again when
all clones have been destroyed and no mappings of those clones into address
spaces exist.

## RETURN VALUE

**vmo_create**() returns **ZX_OK** on success. In the event
of failure, a negative error value is returned.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**  *out* is an invalid pointer or NULL or *options* is
any value other than 0.

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY**  Failure due to lack of memory.
There is no good way for userspace to handle this (unlikely) error.
In a future build this error will no longer occur.

## SEE ALSO

[vmo_read](vmo_read.md),
[vmo_write](vmo_write.md),
[vmo_clone](vmo_clone.md),
[vmo_set_size](vmo_set_size.md),
[vmo_get_size](vmo_get_size.md),
[vmo_op_range](vmo_op_range.md),
[vmar_map](vmar_map.md).
